to do list:

-wake up and have breakfast
-tidy house
-turn boat around and fill water tank
-do dishes
-start engine and go pump holding tank

-start reading scuba book

-hang with xav

-mel, dinner, concert, beer



other to dos: surf, apply for jobs, 

engine: finish oil sender setup, compression test, change plugs, fix transmission.


I am relentless. I set my goals by determing the most unlikely thing for me to acheive. I speak six languages, write novels, and dream of sailing around the world.

I'm a storyteller at heart. To me, the meaning of life is to experience everything so you have good stories wherever you end up next.

I'm a storyteller at heart. To me, the meaning of life is to have good stories wherever it is you end up next.


I'm writing to apply for the position of UX Designer.

I would love to work with smart and interesting people at a creative software company that believes in balance between work and play. Could I keep up? I went to UC Berkeley where I double majored in Rhetoric and Spanish Literature. When I graduated, I went abroad, living in Berlin and Barcelona and working as a gourmet vegan chef. I speak a few languages, and I have lots of stories. At the moment I live on a sailboat, which I am restoring myself in the hope that it will sustain a long adventure some day.

Since I've been back in the States, I've been working as a UX Designer at a company making database software in Oakland. I work with stakeholders as well as the development team, and I design screens and interfaces, making mockups, wireframes, workflows, and prototypes. I have recently led a design initiative to optimize the use of styles and implement consistent style sheets across platforms. I am comfortable in the Adobe Suite and can code HTML and CSS (and a bit of JavaScript--but I'm learning!) In my current position, I write a lot of copy (I have worked as a writing tutor and in my free time, I write novels).

To learn more about me, please check out my portfolio and résumé at http://taylorlaubach.com or email me at taylor@taylorlaubach.com. Thank you for taking the time to read my application. I look forward to hearing from you.

All the best,
Taylor



I am passionate about distilling complex concepts and interactions into straightforward and elegant representations. I love to be challenged, to learn, and to find creative solutions to problems. I have experience designing UX/UI for web applications, and I would love the opportunity to speak with you about doing UX for Peanut Labs.

As directed, I will give examples of my experience and responsibilities with regards to each of the responsibilities you list in your posting:


“Be responsible for making sure the usability and appearance of our applications are world class”

I do a lot of QA’ing in my current position, often testing aspects of the site, identifying appearance and usability issues, writing specs, and then working with the development team to ensure the specs are implemented. I then QA my specs before approving them in our ticket system, which designates the changes to be pushed to the corresponding live site.

“Play a key role in the visual design of new interactive features launching on the site”

I recently redesigned every page in a software system in order to incorporate a new style guide that I designed in concert with our visual designer. Our goal was to unify the look of the site (a hodgepodge of modules from other systems) and ensure that users had consistent cues sitewide to visually represent things like hierarchies of information, items opened from lists, and sets of filters. After collaborating to design the style guide, I incorporated it in new mockups for every screen and an overall written spec for the development team for creating and implementing a unified cascading style sheet for the system. I then QA'd the implementation before presenting it to business stakeholders.

“Be focused in deploying innovative products that maximizes ease-of-use for a wide range of end-users”

Our lead technical writer noticed that many RFPs were asking about software to support a program which is parallel to the programs our software normally supports. He asked me to design software for this parallel program to keep us competitive. I researched the program, found training materials for it, and determined the entire workflow and business needs of the workers in that program. I then designed software to meet those needs and support that workflow. My software organizes their work (serving as a case management tool, calendar, and database of people and situations) and removes a lot of their reporting overhead. I made wireframes and iterated them with the lead technical writer before we deemed them ready for development.


“Utilize the significant creative freedom to experiment with new designs and bring forth new feature ideas”

In the above example, I had a lot of creative freedom. In our new public site software, still in beta, I have been part of a small team (me, a content strategist, a visual designer, and a developer) where we have been free to collaborate and come up with designs which we present to our business stakeholders. It’s been a lot of fun.


“Work closely with other teams to understand their needs and optimize ease-of-use across our applications.”

For one of our software systems, there was a very complex financial system where every dollar taken in was defined across 7 dimensions before being paid out according to the rules associated with each dimension. The processes involved in taking in, categorizing, and paying out money took place in three separate software systems. As part of the implementation process for our software, I worked closely with the client and our lead systems analyst to design a solution that allowed front-end users to work on a single screen in order to accomplish their individual workflows. On the backend, there was one screen for each dimension that linked the dimensions together and an eighth screen that linked those bundles of money coming in to contracts for paying the money out. The new system is surprisingly straightforward, given that no one person at the client’s firm was familiar with their entire process. It is now structured in a way that is clear to everyone.

“Strive for design perfection but love to release and iterate.”

The above process involved a LOT of iteration. We had to keep redefining the process as we explained it to the users and someone would chime in to say that their workflow was slightly different.



In your posting, you repeatedly emphasize creativity, problem solving, and a thirst for knowledge and challenges. I need to work for a company that fosters this type of attitude and in a position where it is expected. Let me illustrate what this means to me, with a couple of examples that you won't find on my resume: 1. A year ago I bought a scrapheap sailboat with no idea how anything but the sails worked. A week later I moved in. In the next six months, I learned about, redesigned, and rebuilt the waste and drinking water plumbing systems, the AC and DC electrical systems and many of the sailing systems; I refurbished and installed a kerosene stove and oven, rebuilt the engine (which now runs), and even reupholstered the cushions. I knew nothing about engines, plumbing, electrical, or sewing when I started. 2. I speak five foreign languages. I love learning about the grammar, how the concepts fit together to make meaning. 3. Out of curiosity, I taught myself HTML and CSS in a weekend. That Monday a web developer was out sick, and I started coding webpages at work. 4. I'm currently writing my third novel.

My resume is attached. You can find my portfolio on my website at http://taylorlaubach.com. My work has been almost exclusively for proprietary SaaS systems, but you can find a beta version of a public website for the San Francisco Aging and Disabled Resource Center at http://demo2.sfgetcare2.com. Thank you so much for taking the time to read my application. I hope to hear from you soon.

All the best,
Taylor

Hi there,

I was reading your website and getting really excited about asking you for a job before realizing that Oakland, New Jersey is nowhere near Oakland, California. Not sure how that happened. 

Well, I'm a UX Designer at a small software company (my title is Technical Writer, but I do a mix of UX, UI, and IxD) with 1.5 years of experience. I love what I do, and I'm looking to make the transition to a firm that focuses on UX Design in order to hone my skills.

I know that you are a family and friends business, and so, I'm wondering if I can ask any of you for advice on how to make that transition, given my experience level and current job title.

I know you guys must be busy, and if the answer is absolutely "no", you can stop reading here. Thank you for your time. (Really, thanks!) Your company seems really cool and I was stoked to read about you.

If the answer is "...maybe", I'd like the chance to tell you a little about myself. I'm a hardworking communicator with a thirst for knowledge and challenges.

Let me illustrate what this means to me, with a couple of examples that you won't find on my resume: 1. A year ago I bought a scrapheap sailboat with no idea how anything but the sails worked. A week later I moved in. In the next six months, I learned about, redesigned, and rebuilt the waste and drinking water plumbing systems, the AC and DC electrical systems and many of the sailing systems; I refurbished and installed a kerosene stove and oven, rebuilt the engine (which now runs), and even reupholstered the cushions. I knew nothing about engines, plumbing, electrical, or sewing when I started. 2. I speak five foreign languages. I love learning about the grammar, how the concepts fit together to make meaning. 3. Out of curiosity, I taught myself HTML and CSS in a weekend. That Monday a web developer was out sick, and I started coding webpages at work. 4. I'm currently writing my third novel.

I'm not trying to toot my own horn. I'm just trying to say that understanding and then redesigning complex systems is what I thrive on. It's what I love about UX design, and I imagine it's part of what you guys love about it to.

If you've gotten all the way down here, thank you very much for reading my message. I'd really like to hear from you. I would appreciate ny advice you have for where I should go next and how I might think about getting there. If you aren't sure whether you're interested, you could always check out my resume and portfolio at http://taylorlaubach.com. Thanks so much!

All the best,
Taylor 